>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
SEPTEMBER 14th, THE UNITED
STATES AND RUSSIA STRIKE A DEA
TO ELIMINATE SYRIA'S CHEMICA
WEAPONS.
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
LOOK AT BRITISH COLUMBIA THA
HAVE DRAMATICALLY REDUCED DRUN
DRIVING DEATHS
>> THESE RULES EPITOMIZE SYRIA'S
ACTION
>> AND HOW ARE AMERICANS REALL
FEELING ABOUT THE ECONOMY?
NEXT ON "PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
THERE IS NOW A DEAL IN PLACE T
FORCE SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHA
AL-ASSAD TO GET RID OF ALL-HIS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS BY THE MIDDLE
OF NEXT YEAR
>> THAT MEANS A MILITARY STRIK
IS UNLIKELY ANY TIME SOON.
AFTER THREE DAYS OF MARATHON
TALKS IN SWITZERLAND, THEY
ANNOUNCED THE AGREEMENT.
>> THE UNITED STATES AND RUSSI
ELIMINATING CHEMICAL WEAPONS I
THE SOONEST AND SAFEST MANNER.
WE AGREE THAT SYRIA MUST SUBMI
WITHIN A WEEK, NOT IN 30 DAYS,
BUT IN ONE WEEK A COMPREHENSIV
LISTING AND ADDITIONAL DETAILS
WILL BE ADDRESSED REGARDING THAT
IN THE COMING DAYS
THERE CAN BE NO GAMES, NO ROOM
FOR AVOIDANCE OR ANYTHING LESS
THAN FULL COMPLIANCE BY TH
ASSAD REGIME
>> UNDER THE DEAL, INTERNATIONAL
INSPECTORS WOULD BE ON THE
GROUND IN SYRIA IN NOVEMBER AN
ALMOST IMMEDIATELY BEGIN
DESTROYING EQUIPMENT USED TO
PRODUCE CHEMICAL WEAPONS
ONE POTENTIAL COMPLICATION I
HOW TO ENFORCE THE INSPECTIO
AGREEMENT WHEN THE COUNTRY IS IN
THE MIDST OF A CIVIL WAR THAT'
RESULTED IN MORE THAN 100,00
DEATHS
THE REBEL LEADER PLEDGED TODAY
NOT TO INTERFERE WITH TH
INSPECTION PROCESS BUT SAYS TH
DEAL WAS NOTHING MORE THAN A
STALL TACTIC BY THE ASSA
REGIME
>> AND WE THINK THE RUSSIANS AND
THE SYRIAN REGIME ARE PLAYIN
GAMES TO WASTE TIME AND TO WIN
TIME FOR THE CRIMINAL REGIME
DAMASCUS, THERE WILL BE NO
CEASE-FIRE
>> CAN THE CHEMICAL WEAPON
DEELTS BE ENFORCED AND WHA
OTHER WEAPONS DOES THE ASSAD
REGIME RETAIN AND HOW MUCH OF
LET DOES IT REMAIN
OUR NATIONAL SECURITY ANALYS
JOINS US FROM WASHINGTON
I HAVE TO ASK, THE REBELS SAID
YOU WERE AT THE PENTAGON, HO
CONFIDENT ARE THEY IN TH
ENFORCEMENT OF THE DEAL?
>> NOBODY CAN BE CONFIDENT YET
THE DEAL COVERS ALL THE BASES.
IT TALKS ABOUT VERIFICATION.
IT TALKS ABOUT DISPOSAL.
IT SETS TIGHT DEADLINES.
IT GIVES ACCESS TO THE
INSPECTING VOTES
ON PAPER IT'S REALLY GOOD T.
PROBLEM IS YOU NEVER KNOW HO
ANY OF THIS WORKS UNTIL YOU GO
INTO THE FIELD
YOU WILL BE DOING THIS IN
COUNTRY THAT'S AT WAR.
THERE ARE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
SITES.
THEY ALL HAVE DIFFERENT TYPES OF
WEAPONS.
UNTIL YOU ACTUALLY GET THERE
YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT METHODS OF
DISPOSAL YOU ARE GOING TO USE.
YOU DON'T KNOW THE PROBLEMS IN
MOVING THEM IF YOU ARE GOING T
TAKE THEM OUT OF THE COUNTRY
YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW TH
TECHNICAL WAY TO DO IT
THEN YOU RUN UP AGAINST TH
PROBLEM OF EXACTLY HOW MANY AR
THERE?
CAN YOU REALLY DO CHALLENG
INSPECTION
WILL HE TRY TO HIDE SOME
>> SO, LET'S SAY, BEST CAS
SCENARIO, THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS
ARE REMOVED OFF THE TABLE, WHA
ABOUT ALL OF THE OTHER WEAPONS
THAT THE ASSAD REGIME WILL STILL
RETAIN THAT MIGHT HAVE BEE
TAKEN OUT HAD THERE BEEN A
MILITARY STRIKE?
>> WELL, QUITE FRANKLY, THOS
ARE THE KEY.
THEY HAVE BEEN THE SOURCE OF
VIRTUALLY EVERY SINGLE KASHLTHTY
THAT HAS OCCURRED.
NO MATTER HOW YOU ESTIMATE IT,
EVEN IF YOU ONLY COUNT THE DEA
AND NOT SOME 6 MILLION SYRIANS
THAT HAVE BEEN DISPLACED OR MADE
INTO REFUGEES, CHEMICAL WEAPON
WOULD CAUSE LESS THAN 20% OF THE
MOST CONSERVATIVE ESTIMATE I
ANY NUMBER OF PEOPLE
THE KILLING MECHANISMS HAVE BEEN
ARTILLERY.
THEY HAVE BEEN EXECUTIONS.
THERE HAS BEEN A U.N. REPORT
ISSUED UP ON OUR 9/11 THAT SHOWS
THAT THE PRIMARY MECHANISMS HAVE
BEEN THINGS LIKE TORTURE
DETENTION, DISPLACEMENTS
THIS HAS NOT BEEN SOMETHIN
WHERE CHEMICAL WEAPONS HAV
PLAYED A MAJOR ROLE.
AND WE KNOW FIRST THAT THEY CA
SHIFT VERY RAPIDLY
AFTER THE PRESIDENT MADE HIS
ANNOUNCEMENT, THE FIRST TIME
THAT HE WOULD USE CRUISE
MISSILES, WITHIN HOURS, THEY'D
SHOW A POPULATED AREA IN SYRIA
THAT WAS COVERED BY THE BBC.
AFTER THEY ANNOUNCED THIS DEAL
IN TERMS OF ABOLISHING CHEMICA
WEAPONS, AND IT WAS CLEA
THERE'D BE A PAUSE TO TH
CERTAIN GOVERNMENT IMMEDIATELY
STARTED USING AIR POWER AN
ARTILLERY AGAIN.
SO THIS IS NOT GOING TO MAKE
MUCH DIFFERENCE AS FAR AS ANY OF
THE SYRIANS ARE CONCERNED.
>> ALL RIGHT
FINALLY, A QUICK QUESTION.
I'M ASSUMING EVEN THOUGH VLADMIR
PUTIN MAKES HIS CASE IN THE NE
YORK TIMES, HE IS STILL APPLYING
ASSAD WITH WEAPONS
WE HAVE HAD STATEMENTS B
MEMBERS OF THE CONGRESS THAT
THERE ARE REGULAR RUSSIA
SHIPMENTS.
ONE OF THE PROBLEMS WE HAVE HERE
IS NO ONE HAS PROVIDED ANY
ASSESSMENT AT ANY LEVEL FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION OF OUR EFFORTS TO
SHIP ARMS, OF HOW MANY ARMS THEY
ARE GETTING FROM THE 18IAN, HO
MANY ARMS THEY ARE GETTING FRO
THE RUSSIANS
WE'VE HEARD ESTIMATES OF SOM
5,000 HEZBOLLAH WITHOUT ANYONE
FULLY VERIFYING IT
THERE ARE REPORTS OF AT LEAS
THREE IRANIAN TRAINING CAMPS FOR
THE MILITIA AND, YET, NONE O
THOSE HAVE BEEN MADE PUBLIC.
>> THANKS SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU
>> AND NOW TO COLORADO WHERE
EXTENSIVE FLOODING HAS LEF
HUNDREDS STRANDED NORTH OF
DENVER
THE NATIONAL GUARD HAS BEEN AI
DROPPING FOOD AND WATER TO THEM.
AT LEAST FOUR PEOPLE HAVE DIED
AND MORE THAN 170 AR
UNACCOUNTED FOR.
NEW CONCERNS TONIGHT ABOUT BUS
SAFETY
THIS A GREYHOUND BECAUSE E
ROUTE FROM DETROIT TO CINCINNATI
FELL OFF I-95, FLIPPED OVER AN
LANDED IN A CORN FIELD
MORE THAN 30 PEOPLE WERE
INJURED.
LAST YEAR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION SHUT DOWN 26 BU
OPERATORS, CALLING THEM QUOT
IMMINENT HAZARDS TO PUBLIC
SAFETY
GREYHOUND WAS NOT AMONG IF
COMPANIES CITED AT THAT TIME
>>> AND WERE THE TWO EXPERTS
FROM THE U.S. ENVIRONMENTA
PROTECTION AGENCY ARE HEADING TO
HONOLULU
THEIR MISSION IS TO TRY TO
CONTAIN A SPILL OF 1,400 TONS OF
MOLASSES NEAR THAT CITY'
HARBOR, WHICH HAS KILLED
APPROXIMATELY 2,000 FISH
HEALTH OFFICIALS SAY THAT NUMBER
IS EXPECTED TO GROW IN THE
COMING DAYS.
IF SPILL OCCURRED ABOUT 5 MILE
WEST OF THE POPULAR WAY CAN
CAN I FOURIST AREA
FOR SOME NEW ENGLANDERS UP O
THEIR HISTORY, THE EVENT WAS A
REMINDER OF THE GREAT MOLASSES
SPILLED IN BOSTON NEARLY 100
YEARS AGO.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR ORIGINA
SEGMENT FEATURING ORIGINAL A
IN-DEPTH REPORTING AROUND TH
WORLD.
ONE OF OUR AIMS TO SPOTLIGHT
PROGRAMS THAT COULD CONCEIVABL
CONSIDERED IN THIS COMPANY
OUR APPROACH IS ON A NEW
APPROACH TO REDUCE DRINKING AN
DRIVING.
IT'S HARDLY A TOPIC.
BUT IT WAS BACK IN THE NOUDZ
WHEN A YOUNG MAN CONFESSED
ONLINE TO HIS ROLE IN A FATA
ACCIDENT
MAYBE YOU SAW IT
>> MY NAME IS MATHIEU CORDELL.
ON JUNE 22nd, 2013, I HIT AN
KILLED VINCENT CANZANI
>> BECAUSE SO MANY PEOPLE DIE IN
DRUNK DRIVING ACCIDENTS, ABOUT
10,000 A YEAR.
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATIO
SAFETY BOARD RECOMMENDED TOUGHER
LAWS TO STOP DRINKING AN
DRIVING.
A FEW PROGRAM IN BRITISH
COLUMBIA HAS BEEN VERY
SUCCESSFUL REDUCEING THE NUMBE
OF DEATHS OUR NEWS HOU
CORRESPONDENT TRAVELED THERE AND
FILES THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: FIVE YEARS AGO, A
TERRIBLE FAMILY TRAGEDY OCCURRED
HERE IN ROYAL BRITISH COLUMBIA
BUT OVER TIME, IT BECAME MUC
MORE THAN THAT
THIS TRAGEDY SET IN MOTION
DRAMATIC CHANGES TO THE LAWS
GOVERNING DRINK AND DRIVING,
CHANGES SUPPORTERS SAY HAV
ALREADY SAVED ACCIDENCE OF
LIVES.
>> THAT TRAGEDY INVOLVED A
4-YEAR-OLD GIRL.
HER NAME WAS ALEXA
>> IT WAS A BEAUTIFUL MAY LONG
WEEKEND AND MY DAUGHTER ALEX
LOVED THIS ONE PARTICULAR HORS
AND SHE REALLY WANTED TO SHO
HER GRANDPARENTS THAT HORSE.
SO I REMEMBER SAYING GOOD-BYE TO
HER.
THEN VERY SHORTLY AFTER THAT, WE
HEARD ALL KIND OF SIRENS
AT THAT MOMENT I JUST, I JUS
KNEW, I SAID, IT'S ALEXA
SOMETHING'S HAPPENED TO ALEXA.
>> A 56-YEAR-OLD DOING NEARL
TWICE THE SPEED LIMIT SMASHE
INTO THE EXACT SPOT WHERE ALEX
STOOD FEEDING THE HORSE ON THE
SIDE OF THE ROAD
THE WOMAN ADMITTED TO POLICE SHE
HAD THREE CLASS IFS OF WEE
BEFORE GETTING INTO HER CAR.
>> WHEN WE KNEW ROADSIDE THA
OUR DAUGHTER WAS DEAD, I
REMEMBER MY HUSBAND JUST IN TH
AMBULANCE, WE BOTH HELD EACH
OPTS AND HE SAID, THIS WILL NO
WRECK US
THIS WILL DEFINE US.
THERE WILL BE SOME CHANGE IN
THIS
>> Reporter: AFTER THE ACCIDENT,
ALEXA'S PARENTS, MICHAEL AND
LAUREL, LAUNCHED A CAMPAIGN TO
TRY AND CHANGE THE CULTURE
AROUND DRINKING AND DRIVING TO
DETER PEOPLE FROM DOING IT THEIR
HE VENT BECAME A LOCAL FEATURE
ON THE LOCAL NEWS.
>> WE WILL HONOR OUR DAUGHTE
AND WE WILL MAKE THE NECESSARY
CHANGES THAT NUMBER ONE...
>> THEY SOON REALIZED IT WOULD
TAKE MORE THAN THAT.
THEY REALIZED THEY HAD TO CHANGE
THE DRUNK DRIVING LAWS, WHIC
LIKE IN THE U.S. SET THE LOCAL
ALCOHOL LIMIT AT .08%.
AFTER LOBBYING THE GOVERNMEN
FOR NEARLY A YEAR ALONGSID
GROUPS LIKE MOTHERS AGAINS
DRUNK DRIVING, THEIR EFFORTS
PAID OFF
IN 2010, THE PROISHL GOVERNMEN
NOT ONLY STIFFENED PENALTIES
AGAINST DRIVING AT .08 BUT, MORE
IMPORTANTLY, IT TARGETED DRIVERS
WHO FALL BELOW THA
TO .05
TWO DRINKS FOR A WOMAN AND THREE
FOR A MAN CAN IMPAIR YOU
ABILITY TO DRIVE
THE BIG CHANGE WAS IF YOU AR
NOW CAUGHT DRIVING WITH A .0
BLOOD ALCOHOL LEVEL THE POLICE
ARE AUTHORIZED ON THE SPOT T
FINE YOU, SUSPEND YOUR DRIVER'
LICENSE AND IMMEDIATELY IMPOUN
YOUR XAR FOR AT LEAST THRE
DAYS
THEY WOULD GET YOU OUT OF TH
VEHICLE AND A TOW TRUCK WOUL
HAUL IT AWAY
IF LATE 2010, POLICE BEGAN
ENFORCING THE NEW LAWS AND
POLICE IMPOUND LOTS ACROSS
BRITISH COLUMBIA BEGAN FILLING
UP
THE CHANGES SPARKED AN UPROAR,
CIVIL LIBERTARIANS ARGUED IT
GAVE THE POLICE TOO MUCH POWER
RESTAURANT OWNERS LIKE MAR
ROBERT SAID THE NEW LAWS DAMAGED
THE ECONOMY.
HE SAYS HIS BUSINESS DROPPED
BETWEEN 10 AND 20%
>> WHEN THE CHANGE OF DRINKING
DRIVING LAWS CAME OUT, WE KNEW
IT WAS GOING TO HAVE A STRON
IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS
>> WHAT DID YOU THINK, THA
CUSTOMERS WOULD SUDDENLY BY
PLAYED THE AND WOULDN'T COME T
YOUR DOOR?
>> WE THOUGHT THERE WAS A LOT OF
UNKNOWNS OF WHAT THAT MEANT A,
HOW MANY DRINKS PEOPLE HAD
THERE WAS LITTLE INFORMATION
ABOUT HOW THAT WAS GOING TO BE
ENFORCED, HOW IT WAS GOING T
IMPACT WHAT PEOPLE COULD DRINK
WE WERE CREATING NON-ALCOHOLIC
DRINKS TO TRY TO MAKE UP FOR
THOSE LOST SALES
IT REALLY WAS A LOT OF FEAR, A
LOT OF UNKNOWN AND SOME REAL
CHANGES IN PEOPLE'S BEHAVIOR
>> Reporter: AND THE IMPACT WA
IMMEDIATE.
DURING THE FIRST YEAR THE IF YOU
LAWS WERE IN EFFECT, THE NUMBE
OF DRUNK DRIVING DEATHS IN
BRITISH COLUMBIA PLUNGED
CRITICS ARGUE THAT FIRST YEA
WAS A FLUKE.
BUT THE SECOND YEAR THE FOOTBALL
DECLINED AGAIN
A 55% REDUCTION IN DEATHS IN
JUST TWO YEARS
THE MESSAGE, IT SEEMED, HA
STARTED GETTING THROUGH TO
DRIVERS.
>> SO IT WAS QUITE WEL
PUBLICIZED AND FOR DETERRENCE TO
WORK IT'S ABOUT AS MUCH AS
KNOWING AND EXPECTING
CONSEQUENCE THAN FULLY BEING
LIKELY
PEOPLE'S PERCEPTION THAT IT WA
WAY HIGH THAN IT ACTUALLY WAS.
>> AND THAT'S KEY?
>> IT IS KEY
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
>> Reporter: HE IS AN EXPERT O
POLICY AT THE UNIVERSITY O
VICTORIA, HE TOLD US HE CAN'
THINK OF A SINGLE REFORM THAT'
HAD THIS BIG OF AN IMPACT THIS
QUICKLY.
HE AND HIS COLLEAGUES REVIEWED A
PEER STUDY OF THE EFFECTIVENES
OF THE NEW LAWS.
>> THESE LAWS EPITOMIZE TAKING
ACTION AND IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO UNDERSTAND THAT YOU DON'T
NEED DRA CONIAN SEVERE
PENALTY -- DRACONIAN SEVER
PENALTIES, MORE IMPORTANT THAT
THEY ARE CERTAIN AND SWIFT
SO ON THE SPOT, LOSING YOUR CA
FOR THREE DAYS A WEEK, THAT'
SEVERE ENOUGH.
THE NEW LAWS HAVE SETBACKS
POLICE HAVE PROBLEMS WIT
BREATHALYZERS.
COURTS RULED DRIVERS DESERVED
BETTER APPEALS PROCESS
J YOU THIS WEEK, A JUDGE RULED
IN FAVOR OF A DRIVER WHA
APPEALED HIS 2012 DRIVIN
SUSPENSION
CRITICS SAY THAT RULING COUL
FORCE A REWRITING OF THE LAWS.
FOR NOW, THOUGH, THE HEART O
THE LAWS REMAIN INTACT
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT THA
THERE HAVE BEEN SO MANY LEAVES
SAVED BY THESE NEW RULES THAT,
YES, THEY MAY HAVE TAKEN A HIT
OUT OF THE BORE BUSINESS, BUT TO
SAVE PEOPLE'S LIVES, THAT'S AN
OKAY PRICE TO PAY.
>> YEAH.
IT'S HARD TO ARGUE THAT.
I SIMPLY CERTAINLY AM NOT GOIN
TO SIT HERE AND SAY, WELL, W
SHOULD ALOPEOPLE TO DRIN
WHATEVER AND WHATEVER TH
CONSEQUENCES ARE, THAT'S THE WAY
IT'S GOING TO BE
I CERTAINLY WOULDN'T ADVOCAT
THAT
>> WHY DO YOU THINK THIS HAS
BEEN SO EFFECTIVE IN
>> I THINK BECAUSE THE
CONSEQUENCE IS FIRM.
I THINK THAT PEOPLE RESPOND WHEN
THERE IS A HARSHER CONSEQUENCE
AND I THINK, TOO, BECAUSE IT'S A
LARGER BOWL.
JUST LIKE SECOND-HAND SMOKE, W
HAVE NO TOLERANCE FOR THAT
ANYMORE.
JUST LIKE WHEN SEATBELTS CAM
IN, THERE WAS THAT FUNDAMENTAL
SHIFT.
MY GOAL HAS ALWAYS BEEN THER
WILL BE A FUNDAMENTAL SHIFT THAT
IT'S NOT OKAY TO DRINK AND
DRIVE.
DRINKING, FINE, ABSOLUTELY DRINK
WHATEVER YOU LIKE AND ENJOY AN
PARTAKE, JUST DON'T MIX IT WIT
DRIVING.
>> VISIT THE NEWS HOUR ONLINE,
USE AN INTERACTIVE MAP THA
SHOWS THE ROLE ALCOHOL PLAYS
AROUND THE WORLD
YOU WILL FIND OUR NEW FEATUR
ANCHOR HOURS WHERE WE TAKE YOU
QUESTIONS ABOUT VANCOUVER'
DRUNK DRIVING LAW.
READ A TRANSCRIPT OF THE TWITTER
CHAT AT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
NOW THE ECONOMY HAS SURPRISING
FINDINGS
A POLL FROM NBC NEWS, FOR MORE
FROM THAT, WE ARE JOINED BY TH
JOURNAL'S WASHINGTON BUREA
CHIEF.
WE WERE PARTICULARLY STRUCK TO
THE RESPONSES TO ONE OF YOUR
QUESTIONS, WHAT WORRIES PEOPLE
THE MOST
ACCESS TO AFFORDABLE HEALT
CARE, SAVING RETIREMENT TOPS THE
LIST OF CONCERNS
26%, ONE IN FOUR SAID THEY MOS
WORRY ABOUT PAYING FOR THEIR
GROCERIES AND UTILITY BILLS.
WHAT DOES THAT TELL US ABOUT THE
ECONOMY?
>> WELL, IT TELLS YOU WHAT THE
REST OF THE FINDING ALSO TELLS
YOU WHICH IS FIVE YEARS AFTE
THE ECONOMIC COLLAPSE ON WAL
STREET, PEOPLE ARE NOT VER
COMFORTABLE WITH THIS RECOVERY
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE WORRY ABOUT
HEALTH CARE.
>> THAT SUGGESTS OBAMACARE I
ADDRESSING THE RIGHT QUESTIO
EVEN IF YOU DON'T THINK IT'S THE
RIGHT ANSWER
YOU ARE RIGHT, IT IS STRIKIN
HOW MANY PEOPLE WOISH ABOU
THINGS DAY-TO-DAY RIGHT NOW.
THE OTHER NUMBER THAT JUMPED OUT
AT ME, LAST FALL, 45% OF PEOPL
SAID THEY TOT THE ECONOMY WA
THE GOING TO GET BETTER OVER THE
NEXT 12 MONTHS
>> THAT NUMBER IS NOW DOWN T
27%.
SO, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
LOOKING FOR FIVE YEARS FOR THE
SIGN THE REAL RECOVERY THAT'
GOING TO PRODUCE THE REA
ECONOMIC GROWTH MAY BE A LITTL
BIT OF AN ECONOMIC BOOM IS
COMING
THEY STILL DON'T SEE TLITS AND
SO THEY'RE WORRIED NOT JUS
ABOUT THE LONG RUN, THEY'R
WORRIED ABOUT THE SHORT RUN.
>> THE OTHER NUMBER I WA
WORRIED IS THE NUMBER OF PEOPL
IN YOUR SURVEY THAT IDENTIFY
THEMSELVES AS POOR DOUBLE AN
THE PERCENTAGE CALLING
THEMSELVES MIDDLE CLASS HA
SLIPPED.
HOW UNUSUAL IS THIS.
>> THAT IS UNUSUAL
>> THAT ITSELF THE AMERICA
DREAM.
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE POOR AND THEY
STRIVE TO BE MIDDLE CLASS.
THE MIDDLE CLASS STRIVE TO B
RIVEN.
YOU SEE A REVERSAL OF THAT
THE OTHER NUMBER IN THAT REGAR
THAT JUMPED OUT TO ME THOS
PEOPLE WHO CONSIDER THEMSELVES
MIDDLE CLASS, KNOWN% SAID THEY
MIGHT, THEY FEAR AT LEAST THEY
MIGHT DROP OUT OF THE MIDDLE
CLASS IN THE NEXT FEW YEARS, I
THE NEXT FIVE YEARS OR SO.
THAT'S A REAL SIGN OF WORRY AS
WELL
YOU SAID, CAN I PAY MY GROCERY
BILLS, MY UTILITY BILLS?
THIS IS A NUMBER LONG TERM
CONCERNS NOT JUST SHORT TERM
CONCERNS
>> FINALLY, THERE IS ONLY 24
PERCENT OF RESPONDENTS SAID THEY
HAD BEEN AFFECTED A GREAT DEAL
BY THE HOUSING CRISIS, SO WHAT
ELSE ACCOUNTS FOR THIS GROWING
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO FEEL POOR
OR THINK THEY HAVE FALLEN OUT OF
THE MIDDLE CLASS
>> TWO THINGS, IF YOU DIVIDE
THAT NUMBER BY THE PEOPLE WH
SAID THEY WERE SOMEWHAT AFFECTED
BE I THE WALL STREET COLLAPSE,
YOU GET OVER 50%
SO PEOPLE DIDN'T JUST OBSERV
THIS CRISIS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE FELT IT AFFECTED
THEM OR SOMEBODY IN THEI
FAMILY
THAT'S THE FIRST THING T. SECOND
THING I THINK IT'S PRODUCED
GENERAL ANXIETY.
YOU SEE THE IN A LOT OF POLL
NUMBERS.
FRANKLY, I THINK YOU SEE IT ON
THE DEBATE ON SYRIA.
THIS IS AN UNEASY COUNTRY.
EVEN IF YOU DIDN'T FEEL YOU WERE
DIRECTLY AFFECTED BY THE WAL
STREET FINANCIAL CRISIS, YOU
SORT OF WATCHED IT UP CLOSE,
CLOSE ENOUGH THAT YOU WORR
ABOUT IT AND IT'S PRODUCED KIN
OF AN UNDERLYING ANXIETY AND
THERE HASN'T BEEN ENOUGH
ECONOMIC GROWTH TO MAKE THAT
ANXIETY GO AWAY.
>> THAT I THINK IS THE REA
RESIDUAL EFFECT FIVE YEARS
LATER.
>> JERRY, THANKS, SO MUCH.
>> SURE.
HAVE HAPPY TO DO IT.
>> AND NOW TO THE ARTS, LAST
WEEKEND, WE PROMISED TO SHOWCASE
ARTS PROGRAMMING BY MANY
REPORTERS AND LOCAL PBS STATIONS
AROUND THE NATION.
TODAY, WE MAKE GOOD ON THA
PROMISE.
JARED BOWEN OF WGBH IN BOSTO
RECENTLY TRAVELED TO LENNOX,
MASSACHUSETTS WHERE HE VISITED
THE MOUNT.
IT WAS THE HOME OF ONE OF TH
GREAT WRITERS EDITH WARTON, IN
MANY WAYS HER ENSEPARATION
EVEN TODAY, EDITH WARTON
OCCUPIES A PLACE AS ONE OF
AMERICA'S LEADING LADIES
SHE WAS BORN INTO THE UPPE
CRUST OF NEW YORK IN THE 1,800s.
A MEMBER OF HIGH SOCIETY EXPOSED
THROUGH THE PRISM OF HER PEN
WARTON WROTE MORE THAN 40 BOOK
IN 40 YEARS INCLUDING "ETHAN
FROMME" AND "AGE OF INNOCENCE.
SHE WON A PULITZER PRIZE AND SHE
IS REMEMBERED FOR HER HOME
ABOUND AND IF A HOME CAN SERVE
AS AN AUTO BIOGRAPHY, THE MOUN
IS IT.
SITTING ON A HILL IN LENNOX,
MASSACHUSETTS, THE MOUNT WAS
CONCEIVED BY THE WRITER FROM THE
GROUND UP.
SHE DREAMED ITS LOCATION, GUIDED
ITS AESTHETIC PRINCIPLES AND
DESIGNED HER ELABORATE GARDENS
IT WAS IN A SENSE HER OWN HOUS
OF MYRR WHICH SHE LIVED IN HERE.
>> THIS HOUSE WAS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR HER TO DO THINGS THE WAY
THEY OUGHT TO BE DONE.
THAT WAS TO CHAMPION A RETURN OF
CLASSICISM, SYMMETRY, BALANCE,
PROPORTION
LOTS OF LIGHT AND OPENING UP
SPACES AND TO MAKE THEM LIVABLE.
>> Reporter: WARTON DENIED HER
HOME PRACTICALLY
NO SPACE WENT UNUSED
IT WAS LARGE BUT NOT GRAND
AND IT FAVORED HER PREDELICTIO
FOR PRIVACY.
A WRITER STAGED IN HER LIBRARY
SHE ACTUALLY WROTE ELSEWHERE
>> EDITH WARTON HAD ALWAYS DON
HER BEST WORK WRITING IN BED
THAT WAS WHERE THE CREATIV
GENIUS INSPIRED HER.
SO I THINK IN BUILDING THE
MOUNT, SHE CREATED A SPACE WHERE
SHE COULD HAVE THE PRIVACY SHE
NEEDED TO GET HER BEST WOR
DONE
>> SHE DID LOVE HER LIBRARY,
THROW, THE FULL TWO-THIRDS O
HER COLLECTION HAS BEEN RETURNED
TO THE MOUNT
>> WHAT DOES HER LIBRARY TELL US
ABOUT HER?
>> IT'S ABOUT A REMARKABLE
WINDOW INTO EDITH WARTON'S
INTELLECTUAL LIFE.
SHE WAS READING AND A VORACIOU
LEARNER.
SHE WAS READING IN FIV
LANGUAGES, SHE WAS FEELING U
FOR A CHAMG, SHE WAS READING
BOOKS ON ASTRONOMY AND THEOLOGY.
>> HER BOOKS ARE RIDDLED WIT
MARKS, NOTATION AND DESTRUCTION.
DISMADE WITH ONE PUBLISHER'S
CHOICE TO FEATURE ILLUSTRATION
IN ONE OF HER BOOKS, SHE FOUND A
REMEDY
>>-HER OWN COPY, YOU CAN SEE O
THE TITLE PAGE, SHE HAS CROSSE
OUT THE NAME OF THE ILLUSTRATO
IN PENCIL AND THEN THERE ALL O
THE ILLUSTRATIONS HAVE BEE
RAZORED OUT OF THE BOOK.
>> Reporter: AMAZINGLY, WARTON
CONSIDERED HERSELF A BETTE
LANDSCAPE THAN NOVELIST.
>> THAT IS LESS ASTONISHIN
WHICH HER GARDENS APPEAR A
WARTON SAGA.
ALL OF THIS IS A WELCOME SECON
CHAPTER TO THE MOUNT'S HISTORY
THREATENED WITH FORECLOSURE FIVE
YEARS AGO, THE HOME HAS MANAGE
TO CLIMB OUT OF ITS FISCAL HOL
AND IS RUNNING IN THE BLACK.
A FOOTING REGAINED
ED TO THE MOUNT IS POSITIONING
ITSELF AS THE BERKSHIRE'
LITERARY HUB, DRAWING TH
ATTENTION OF WRITERS THE WORLD
OVER
ITS CHAMPIONS ALSO INCLUDE
FORMER FIRST LADY LAURA BUSH WHO
FIRST FELL IN LOVE WITH ETHA
FROMME AS A WEST TEXAS SCHOO
GIRL
>> PEOPLE READ WARTON AN
REALIZE A LOT HAS CHANGED, A LOT
IS STILL VERY MUCH THE SAME AN
SHE JUST IS SO CLEAN AND
MUSCULAR IN A WAY THAT SHE SOR
OF EXPRESSES IT AND OBSERVES I
THAT HER WRITING IS AS RELEVAN
TODAY AS IT EVER WAS
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOUR"
SATURDAY
>> FINALLY TONIGHT AN EXCERPT OF
A FRONT LINE DOCUMENTARY AIRIN
TUESDAY NIGHT.
IT'S CALLED "EGYPT IN CRISIS."
THE PROGRAM EXAMINES THE CURRENT
CHAOS AND ASKS, HOW DO WE GE
HERE AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
>> Reporter: FROM TAHRIR SQUARE,
MORSI STOOD ALREADY BEFORE HIS
SUPPORTERS IN A SIGNAL HE WA
NOT AFRAID, HE SHOWED THE CROW
HE WAS NOT WEARING ANY BOD
ARMOR.
>> HE GOT ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE,
52% OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
EGYPTIAN PEOPLE.
I DON'T CARE WHY THEY WERE
VOTING AGAINST HIS OPPONENT, BUT
THEY ELECTED HIM
WHY DON'T PEOPLE JUST ACCEPT
THIS
>> Reporter: MORSI PROMISED TO
BE A PRESIDENT TO ALL EGYPTIAN
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA HAILED HIS
ELECTION AS A MILESTONE IN
EGYPT'S TRANSITION TO DEMOCRACY.
HE HAD WON BUT HE WAS ALREAD
FACING POWERFUL OPPONENTS.
JUST A FEW DAYS EARLIER, EGYPT'S
SUPREME COURT HACKED WITH MU
BARING A JUDGES HAD DECLARED
JANUARY'S PRIMARY ELECTION
INVALID AND ORDERED TH
PARLIAMENT SHUT DOWN
ISLAMIST PARTIES LED BY TH
MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD HAD WON
NEARLY 70% OF THE SEATS.
>> THEY DESTROYED PARLIAMENT TWO
DAYS BEFORE THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION AND THEY KNEW IF
PRESIDENT COMES WITH AN ELECTION
VOTED IN, THESE TWO INSTITUTIONS
CAN LITERALLY START DISMANTLIN
THE OLD DICTATORSHIP BIT BY BI
AND THEY HAVE TO DYSFUNCTION ONE
ELEMENT OF THAT.
>> THE DLEM NA IS THE MUSLIM
WILL COME TO POWER THROUGH
ELECTIONS.
THIS SUPPOSEDLY HELD THE STATE
SO THEY ARE IN POWER, BU
THEY'RE ACTUALLY NOT IN POWER.
[ MUSIC PLAYING
>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AND
ONLINE BECAUSE WHAT'S HAPPENIN
IN THIS TINY COASTAL TOWN IN
MAINE HOLD A KEY TO AMERICA'
RENEWABLE ENERGY FUTURE?
>> WE HAVE KNOWN FOR CENTURIES
WHEN THE TIDE IS COMING AN
GOING.
WE CAN FELL YOU ON THIS DAY 20
YEARS FROM NOW AT THIS MOMEN
HOW MUCH ELECTRICITY WILL BE
GENERATED.
>> RECAPPING OUR LOAD STORY, THE
UNITED STATES AND RUSSIA STRIK
A DEAL TO ELIMINATE SYRIA'
CHEMICAL WEAPONS
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS' "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.